So I want to render a list of all these expenses below my card here.
Now please keep in mind we are in the ion-grid with rows and columns and I added this to control the
width of my elements in the grid.
The list which I want to render also should have its width controlled,
it should not take a full page width on big screens. So I will add a new ion-row beneath the first one,
with a new ion-column inside of it
and in that ion-column here, I want to render a so-called ion-list. Now I'll give this list an ID
of expenses list because I want to access this list programmatically and render items into it.
Now ion-list here is an element provided by Ionic that helps us structure list data,
so basically structure elements beneath each other and displaying it as a nice list.
You can actually also add other features like sliding list items and these are all things we'll dive
into the course later,
for now let's just go with the list like this and add it just like that and let's add some logic to
add an an item dynamically to that list.
So in app.js, I want to get access to this list of expenses, so my expenses list here is fetched or
a reference to it is fetched with query selector hashtag
expenses list,
so the ID I added to the expenses list.
Now we can use this reference to add new items to it and I want to add new items here where I currently
console log the entered recent amount. I'll create a new item with documents create element which
is a default DOM API, has nothing to do with Ionic that allows us to create new HTML elements and now
the nice thing is these web components, these custom HTML elements can be created just like regular
HTML elements.
So here we can enter ion-item which is the selector or the tag provided by Ionic for this
item element and we used the ion-item before already when we didn't create it programmatically, we used it
here to wrap our label and input. ion-item turns out to be an element which can be used in different
situations
and I'll dive a bit deeper into that in a later module, where we have a closer look at components and
do some deep dives on some important components, ion-item is one of them,
so ion-item actually can be used in different situations.
It can be used to group label and input together but it can also be used inside of an ion-list to
wrap all the content of a single list item that basically should be rendered in a nice way.
So here I'm creating a new ion-item and on this new item here, I want to set a text content which is
equal to my entered reason then colon and then a dollar sign, whoops entered reason plus then a colon
then a dollar sign and then the entered value,
so I'm just constructing some text here where I have the reason and a colon then a dollar sign and after
that the value which I simply assume to be in dollars.
So now I'm setting this as a text to my new item and we can now reach out to the expenses list which
we got access to here and call append child and we'll not do this again later in the course,
then we will use Angular for all these DOM manipulations.
I'm just doing it here with vanilla Javascript to give you an introduction, a feeling for just the Ionic
elements and nothing else.
So here, I append a child and that child is the new item we created. What should now happen is that we
see that up here below our input here
once we reload and we enter valid data again. And here it is,
you see food 12.99
show up below that and you can hit this multiple times to generate more of these items.
Now this is how you can interact with Ionic components in your code
and whilst we will not write this code again later, Angular will basically do this for us behind the
scenes later,
so it's super important to understand that Angular interacts with these web components, with the Ionic
components just as it does with normal HTML elements it can render them to the DOM and so on. It's
not Angular compiling these web components to some normal HTML and Javascript code, instead
this is normal HTML and Javascript code that can be used directly with the DOM APIs.